HACKATHON FRAMEWORK CORE QUESTIONS
1. The core team is just me and my friend Julian. We then recruit other people to meet the specific team count of each hackathon. So me and my friend consistently, and the other members will change. We are also thinking of adding another one of our friends, Fergus, as our dedicated UI/UX frontend person.
2. Honestly? Not really good in any of those. I can code in C and Python (rusty in both though, but will improve later, also data sci libraries in python specifically), and I know how html css works (i coded with them first year cs), but that's basically it. No specific app development skills. System design, i have no clue (though this is an area that I will actually study in the future). That said, in both hackathons so far i did mostly backend work. UI/UX wise, I can do figma designs and prototypes, and use autolayout most of the time so that it translates well html css wise (flexbox and shit). Designing is something I offload to someone else typically though. Though i guess my strength is i can criticize and scrutinize actual user flows? Typically ai generated apps have samey ux, but when you make it code an app from a unique idea it typically makes a lot of ux mistakes, and i can scrutinize that. Though, this is something that I prefer others do for me. Using AI tools, i think im okay with? That's probably my second greatest strength. Domain research I just offload to AI, but honestly i do not know how to do it in hackathon contexts. Pitching and presenting i offload to other teammates (usually Julian). Also, Julian has a similar skillset to me, except he knows more on the data engineering side and does not know UI/UX (but is usually my UX brainstorming buddy). And he's a better speaker and pitcher than me.
3. Julian does, or other teammates. It's not an issue so far.
4. We are planning to tackle a mix of hackathons. Hackathons are usually themed anyway, and are corporate sponsored (even the government ones). The usual hackathon themes are AI and education, but whatever comes up really.
5. again it depends. in our first hackathon it was a one month hackathon, our last dost hackathon was a one week hackathon. But we may join shorter or longer ones (like a 24-36 hour sprint hackathon).
6. How much of the problem statement is known in advance is inconsistent. In our first hackathon, there's basically no problem statement and we are just instructed to use agentic ai to create a solution to a UN SDG of our choice. It was the opposite in the DOST hackathon, where the problem statement was so specific, which is why there was an overlap on what we did and what our opponents did. In the DOST Hackathon, the problem statement was given in the start of the one week hackathon.
7. Innovation and impact seem to carry the most weight. They want to see solutions that are unique, but actually solve the problem they claim to solve (not just bells and whistles). Technical execution is a criteria that swings in importance wildly depending on the kind of hackathon and in what stage in the hackathon we are in, but to be safe it must be technically sound as well.
8. We got the problem statement, each of our team members brainstormed solutions, then we deliberated what solution to follow mainly, and what features to include (partly using the design thinking prompts, in particularly the scamper prompt). Then we built the figma prototype, and then the actual web app. Midway in making the web app, we interviewed an actual person who is the supposed beneficiaries of the problem statement, and we also received feedback from mentors towards the end. These feedback led to a medium sized adjustment towards the end of the development period, which led to the cramming i mentioned before.
9. What AI tools I am using now: Cursor, Gemini for general use cases and orchestration (i have a free trial), Claude for heavy planning (we buy a 1 month plan when needed). What tools I am looking to explore: Claude design, Google Stitch, Perplexity (just purchased their education pro plan), CLI tools like Gemini CLI and Codex and especially Claude code. though, the CLI tools cost money, so I am thinking of using https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code , which uses nvidia nim for a free claude code cli that uses the open source chinese models for free.
10. what i meant by "ideation to coding workflow was broken" in our first hackathon was, because it is our first hackathon we were basically winging it. We think of a new feature to add, then we tell ai to generate the code that we can copy paste into the code base, leading to messy spaghetti code.
11. in the dost hackathon, we were researching ad hoc. we thought of the features, we generated a user persona, then we created an initial set of features to implement. but as i said, we got feedback from the actual target user, and actual judges (that provided us the framework, for example the "What, So What, Now what" framework, or the Data Maturity Lifecyle and the Walk Crawl Run Fly phase in data solutions) fairly late, and we had to readjust.
12. we try to differentiate in the problem understanding level, not just on the feature level. one downside in the dost hackathon is that we still had similar features to our competitors, but we applied it in a way that they didn't and actually made sense for the problem statement (we still lost though due to the earlier mentioned factors).
13. I was thinking of it as a dedicated web app, with its own ai integrations and stuff.
14. Yes, I am okay (even prefer?) for it to make its own api calls, as well as being still a framework. The api calls need to be as much as possible, free.
15. I want this app to be my "secret weapon" that i will spam for hackathons, so the intended users is just me and my team.
16. I do not know what industries his clients reside in. His previous clients were in the social media and marketing side though, as that is his personal skill set, though we expect to expand to other industries and domains. As for scale, probably small to medium for now? But maybe as a stretch goal it should be ready for real world big systems.
17. I do not know what "winning" specifically is, but it definitely includes the factors you mentioned. I will have to ask my cousin for more details about this, though I expect the factors for winning will vary in weight per client.
18. i do not know what those frameworks are. if you think they are helpful, explain them to me and integrate if appropriate.
19. Yeah, we might join an egov.ph hackforgov hackathon. They just announced it, so no details yet. We also want to win in the BPI datawave hackathon next year, because they have the most prize money by far (100k php!). 
20. I want it to feel like a command center of sorts. Like an ai agent orchestration, but designed around a framework and with a prominent human in the loop aspect. Like first I give it the preliminary details, it does some task, i can ask it to refine and add to its output, or it can ask me to specifically execute other task and give it the output (like it can ask me to do deep research with my gemini/perplexity acc for example), and then it will pass its context and work to another agent to continue into the next stage. I want it to research, create user personas, brainstorm and criticize ideas, deliberate on the features, and then finally output a PRD and other documents for Cursor/CLI coding tools as context. That's where the app ends, the Coding tools handle the rest (though our framework workflow might extend after the app). Oh and also, on a miscellaneous note, I want to have a kind of bootstrap starter kit for every hackathons, with premade UI components or backend architecture as a sort of boilerplate.

---
Answers to the remaining questions:

1. make the app solo for now, but add to the stretch goal the collaboration aspect for the shared state per project.
2. It is a team decision, but since the mvp for the app is just for solo, it's just me that enters that decision into the app. So, there needs to be a way to modify the output of phase 4. I was thinking of an Addendum Phase that you can enter that will accept a document like "current_project_state.md" from cursor and a description of the changes, to produce a modified prd. Though going to this should be discouraged.
3. Let's go with the name, "Startup". Startup as in it accelerates the development of competitive software products (though for hackathon context primarily), and it "starts up" the process for us. Hehe
4. I want it to be more prescriptive. It needs to be a reliable workflow so that the chances of me screwing it up is less.